History
=======

The ``pandas-profiling`` project became what it is today, due to the
work of the creators to make it successful. This page aims to highlights
a bit of the development history. For the full picture, have a look at
the `contributor
history <https://github.com/pandas-profiling/pandas-profiling/graphs/contributors>`__.

Inception
---------

In 2016, `Jos Polfliet`_ was working for SAS Institute and was getting
bored with doing the same types of exploratory data analysis over and
over again. Automating his own logic, he noticed it was useful and
decided to open-source it under the MIT License. The package was named
``pandas-profiling`` as a contraction of *pandas* and *data profiling*.
The idea was to enable the user to perform automated exploratory data
analysis, beyond what the ``df.describe()`` function was offering and by
abusing Jupyters HTML output. Since that start, human years of
repetitive plotting and summary statistics have been saved from the
Machine Learning community.

.. _Jos Polfliet: https://www.linkedin.com/in/jos-polfliet/


Second life
-----------

Since May 2019, principal development has been taken over by `Simon
Brugman <https://linkedin.com/in/simonbrugman>`__. The startup that he
co-founded was an early adopter of the package, and he heavily invested
in growing the package with experience brought from using it in the
industry. Simon led the package through a huge refactor (99.5% was
changed) and two major releases, and great collaborations, notably with
`Ian Eaves <https://github.com/ieaves>`__ in
`visions <https://github.com/dylan-profiler/visions>`__.

Where are we now?
-----------------

At the time of writing, ``pandas-profiling`` is one of the primary tools
for data exploration in python, with > 8k Github stars, 30 million
downloads and users working in any industry, including many at FAANG,
banks and insurance companies, startups, universities. pandas-profiling
has been named one of the Top 20 ML packages by Google.

What's next?
------------

Pandas Profiling will be part of a bigger mission, the Data-Centric AI
movement spearheaded by YData. The tech startup, YData, will be the
prominent force that will help make Pandas Profiling the standard
profiling library among data scientists introducing more features,
bigger team and enterprise support.
